Design Gold code of size 1023 (GPS C/A code) using HW2
matlab codes. Two M-codes are used which are generated by
two generating polynomials: G1: g (D) =1+ D3 + D10 and G2:
g (D) =1+ D2 + D3 + D6 + D8 + D9 + D10 .
• Plot the autocorrelation function and show that other than
peak there are only three values in the autocorrelation. What
are the values of the autocorrelation function?
• Increase the number of samples per chip to 4 samples (e.g. 1-
> 1111, 0-> 0000) and plot autocorrelation function again.
Generate 5 periods of oversampled signal
o Add Doppler sinusoid by multiplying code signal to a
sinusoid. Assume one code period is 1ms. Multiply your
signal to a complex sinusoid exp(2π jfnts ) where s t is the
sampling period, n is the sample index.
o
o Introduce a code-phase shift (0-4092): starting from a
sample index (n_code_phase) in the range (0-4092)
extract 4 periods of the signal from previously generated
5 periods. At this stage you will have a signal with certain
code-phase shift and Doppler frequency modulation,
oversampled (4 samples per chip). Add AWGN noise
similar to HW2. Keep this signal generator for simulations
in all design projects.
Part 2. Study degradation effects (Set AWGN noise to “0” (no
noise)
o Crosscorrelate one oversampled code period with
Doppler sinusoidal modulation with Doppler free
oversampled code. Starting with frequency “0” increase
the frequency and demonstrate autocorrelation peak
degradation. At what frequency the peak is reduced two
times? As values are complex – plot absolute values for
crosscorrelation to see the peak?
o Study degradation effects because of code Doppler. Use
one code period of the generated signal with Doppler
frequency “0” (no sinusoidal Doppler). Generate another
signal which has a code Doppler in it. Cross-correlate
them and see degradations. At what Doppler frequencies
code Doppler effects become noticeable?
o The code Doppler is obtained by stretching/expanding
the signal in proportion to relative speed (see lecture
notes on the phenomena). When such signal is sampled
then there will be no exact 4 samples per chip. The
following diagram shows the way to obtain a sampled
signal with code Doppler. We have to sample a stretched
continuous code to account for the code Doppler.
• One should have certain amount of samples per code
period. E.g., with 4 samples per chip we will have 4092
samples per code period. The idea is for each sample to
calculate an appropriate code value. In Doppler free case
we will always have correct alignment of samples and code
chips, while, in general, samples are not aligned with chips
in the presence of code Doppler. Let us assume that the
chip duration is changed due to Doppler and is now
Tchip _ d . Then assume that the number of samples per
original chip was k . Then sampling interval is
ΔTs = Tchip / k .
